Alright, in this video we are going to
take a look at getting properties out of
the Operating system environment. So
there's a couple different ways we can
do this in Spring and there's actually a
little bit of a hierarchy. I'm going to
give you a quick demo with that. Now this
is something very common to do. All
Operating systems are going to support
this whether you're on Windows or Linux
or UNIX. Anything that running is Java is
going to have Operating system
environment properties. There's a number
of different ways that you can set those.
I'm not going to get into the Operating
system specific ways of setting
environment properties but we are going
to get into how we can access on with
Spring and we can see how the hierarchy
is going to work. So I'm going to jump
over to IntelliJ and get into a demo
there and inside of IntelliJ you do have
a Run dialog where you can set up
Operating system properties that we can
access. I'm going to give you a quick
demo there and take a look at the
capabilities within Spring. Okay now Spring gives us a couple different
ways that we can access environment
properties and by environment properties
I'm talking about OS level properties
that we've set in the Operating
system environment. So Java is fully
capable of accessing those properties
and Spring gives us a couple of different
ways that we can do that and one way is
through a convention where we can
override property files. So there's an
actual whole convention or a whole
hierarchy within the Spring framework of
where properties are going to be
determined from. So inside of IntelliJ if
I were to come in here and go to Edit
Configurations and to Environment
variables, I can add in a new Environment
variable and I'm going to call that
GURU_USERNAME and using all caps. And this is going to tell Spring to
override that property and I'm
overriding the value with my override. So
we can see that clearly in the log and the convention is going to be where
we have something dot something. It's
going to be all caps underscore. I think
lowercase will work as well and it
should work with the dot notation as
well. But generally when you're setting
up environment variables
like this, pretty common conventions use
uppercase and underscores. So let's go in.
I'm going to say OK and if you were in
Linux, you could export this in bash as
an environment property or under windows,
you could also set it as an environment
variable. This is, I'm using IntelliJ but this
is going in as a System environment
variable. So I'm going to go ahead and
say OK there and say OK again. We'll go
ahead and run this and we can see that
the MyOVERIDE!!! value is being displayed
there on the bottom of the screen. But
let's just say that we're running in an
environment. I'm going to come back in
here and edit the configurations again and
let's say for whatever reason, we're
deploying it to production but the Ops
guys can only do
USERNAME. Okay, so they're going to say
USERNAME and now when we run it, we're
still going to be getting the property
file value. So what we can do
here to override it in a situation like
that, I'm just showing a capability here, not very good use case but we can wire
in the environment. I'm just going to
call it env for short and now instead of
the user property I can ask it for, so
now I'm asking the Spring Environment
Bean to give me the system property
USERNAME. Let's take a look at that in
action and we see that the override is
now working properly. So that's two
different ways there. If we don't have
that set, so the environment parameters
can override the property file
parameters and this is something pretty
common to do. So you set up defaults and
then you may override those as you are
deploying the application into different
environments through using environment
variables. And this is often pretty handy
views for things like passwords where
you don't want those stored in a file. You can set those through the
environment parameters and then the
Spring application
will pull that data right out of
the system, the Operating system
environment. So a pretty handy tool
here and I just gave you a quick demo
of how there's a hierarchy to how the
Spring property is working. In a future
video I'll get into more detail about
that exact hierarchy and how you can
externalise properties. Now it's very
common that I showed you this a couple
use cases here. It's very common when
you're moving Spring applications from
different environments where you'll have
properties file inside the jar that's
deployed and that's going to be like the
lowest man on the totem pole of where
that property gets defined. And you can
define additional properties inside the
environment that's going to override
that. So it's a real handy way as you're
moving your Spring stuff through
different environments. You can take that
jar, that artifact that's going to run in
let's say your local machine or your
development environment where you set up
those properties and you'll deploy it
into QA or production and the operations
guys are going to set environment
properties to override your values. Now
if you're in the Enterprise as an
Enterprise Developer, due to security
constraints especially in organisations
that are going to be running with
financial services where they're dealing
things like PCI compliance and Sox
compliance like that, chances are you are
not going to have access to production. Sometimes you won't even have access to
a test or QA. These are different
environments. So another team is going to be
handing that off and that other team is
going to be the keepers of the knowledge
of things like passwords and url's and
server names that are running in the
production environment. So a pretty common
thing that you're going to see in the
enterprise. So just be aware that this is
a tool and one of the things that really
makes Spring powerful and why it's so
popular in enterprises is because you do
have this flexibility to easily override
things like data source names and things
like that and environment properties is
a very common way to do that.